First, Mr. Leeper, tell us something about your
early life, including the names of your parents,
the dates of their birth and death, the places of
their birth, the place and date of your birth, and
the schools you attended before going to Texas
A&M. Well, like I say, my father was born in
Tennessee. He was born in 1846.
And my mother was born down here in Parker County.
You know where Weatherford is? She was born in
Weatherford. See, my father, he died in 1924. He
was 79, right at 79. And my mother died in 1922, and
she was around 52 when she died. He was quite a bit
older than she was. So that's what you want to know.
Yeah, now, were they married in Weatherford? So
his family moved to Texas from Tennessee sometime
after he was born. No, no. He was, like I say, he was
born in Tennessee and in military school and ran
off from military school and joined the
Confederate Army, old Nathan Forrest Cavalry.
You've heard of Forrest Raiders, I guess. Yeah. He
was in Nathan Forrest Cavalry. He was about 16. and
he went through the Civil War and then he
afterwards went to St. Louis and things got pretty
rough there you know after that
reconstruction so he went to St. Louis and he was in
the grain business in St. Louis and for some reason
he left there and then he come out to Texas he had a
charge of Singer Showing Machine Company for that
is he was a an agent for the Singer Sewing Machine
Company for four or five years.
He quit that and come over to Weatherford and put in
a business. I think he came to Weatherford in 1878.
What kind of business was that? Well, he sold
sewing machines and organs and sugar mills and old
bicycles. uh all kinds of musical instruments and
like that see and then he had a farm too had
afterwards as i grew up he had a couple of farms out
in the country he used to rent them and uh that was uh
that was a kind of he just stayed with it you know
like all these old fellas did till he went broke
that's the way they used to do it and then the good
road came in from fort worth and that uh killed a
small town. Weatherford at one time was one of the
biggest jobbing centers in even bigger than Fort
Worth at one time. They used to do business all out
here in the west as far as Abilene and Pecos, even
Pecos. They had four big jobbing houses,
wholesale grocers there in Weatherford at one
time. Did they ship out by rail? Shipped by rail.
Always. There's no other way, you see. And then you
were born in Weatherford? I was born in
Weatherford. And when was that? I was born in 1899,
October the 7th. I'm nearly 75 now. You went
through all the school that they had in
Weatherford then? Yeah, I went to high school
there, Weatherford High School. And then I went to
A&M from there. How did you happen to choose A&M?
Well, I'll tell you. My dad used to have... had
standard bred horses. He raised standard bred
horses. That's trotting horses, see. So he used to
race them over at the Dallas Fair. They had
trotting races over there. So I was a little old
kid, you know. I guess about 12 years old,
something like that. So he was German, and he
believed in Disneyland, you know. He was great for
it. when he told me to do anything I didn't I might
ask questions but I asked questions after I did it
see that's the way they raised them then and when I
if I was in a room and somebody come in I popped up out
of that chair and I stood there and I had my chair and
all that and when my mother went calling why I sat
over in the corner in the chair, and I didn't make a
peep until somebody spoke to me. See, that's the
way the kids were brought up, that is, most of them.
And so anyway, we were over there one time at this
racetrack, and A&M
Cadet Corps happened to be there. They were the
ferry, you know, and they were one of the
attractions. So they put on a drill out there, and
they in the center of the racetrack, you know. And
it impressed him, and he says, boy, he says, that's
a pretty good school. He says, I want you to go
there. So that's his decision, see. And of course,
it was my decision, too. I liked it. And we had a
great school in 23. And it'll never be repeated. So
the military aspect was... He was in military
school. His parents were pretty well off, you
know, in Tennessee. They sent him to military
school, sent all the boys to military school. So
that appealed to both of you then? Well, it
appealed to me, yeah. I liked it. I'd heard him talk
about the Civil War, you know. He was a great guy. He
never believed in pampering anybody. The tougher
anything was... He expected you to do it. That was
all. He lived hard. He didn't give a damn. He lived
hard. He didn't believe in pampering anybody. In
other words, he was out there and the horse pitched
you off and he'd tell you to get up and get back on it.
That's the way it is. What were your first
reactions to the school when you got there? Well, I
just fell in with the boys, you know. It's far
different from what it is now. There's a lot of
paddles around. I presume you arrived by train?
Oh, sure. We got there at 4 o'clock in the afternoon
on what they used to call the Jenny. The 4 o'clock
Jenny. Houston, what is that? Houston and Texas
Central, I believe. That's right. Anyway, we
called it the Jenny. One of them come in at 3
o'clock, and another one come in at 4 o'clock, and
another one come in about 4 o'clock in the morning,
3, 4 o'clock in the morning. Was there anybody
there to meet you? Oh, hell no. No? Oh, we didn't.
That stuff, that stuff's old. That's
new-fashioned stuff. Well, I was wondering, some
of the people who were there about your time said
they were upperclassmen there to meet you. and to
escort you back to campus or to recruit you to live
in a particular dormitory or something. Is
somebody that was there when I was? Yeah. Huh?
Yeah. Were there any students to meet the train,
upperclassmen students? Well, I was a little
early, I guess. And so... I got off the train there
at four o'clock in the afternoon, I think it was
somewhere around there. I remember there were
some engineers, these summer engineers, you
know, they were out surveying. I was early. I was
earlier
than ordinarily I would be if I had followed
schedule, but I went down there a little early.
We went up that old
main drag, you know, down to the, up to the
administration building and those engineers
were out there and I remember they had one, two,
three, four, one, two, three, four of these. So
then there's some The farther I got, I met some boys
with paddles, and they were slapping those
paddles on their legs, you know. And so we got on up
to the dormitory. Hell, we didn't know where. I had
a couple of boys from my hometown with me. So we
didn't know what to do, and so we spent the first
night in Goodwin Hall, old Goodwin Hall. Where do
you weigh them up? And you mentioned you spent the
first night in Goodwin Hall. I was in Goodwin Hall.
That's where I spent the first night. And I
remember I had all my bedding and everything
packed up in my trunk.
And the trunk was on the road, see? And so I didn't
have anything but a suitcase. And so we spent the
first night in Goodwin Hall and didn't have any
sheets and anything. So we just slept in our
clothes. So the next day, we registered. And
finally, I picked a boy from Weatherford as my
roommate, a boy named Byron. We called him Goat
Byron, old Goat Byron. He's still down there in
Weatherford. Retired from the Dallas Power and
Light. Engineer, mechanical engineer. So
we spent the first night there in Weatherford. And
you remember hearing them talk about old Casey?
Casey's confectioner, yeah. Casey's
confectioner. Well, we got up the next morning and
went in there and ate breakfast. And old Casey, he
had that chew of the back of his mouth, you know. And
he had one eye, you know, Casey did. Some defect in
his eye here. But he was a character, old Casey was.
Well, then we got in Milner Hall. put up in Milner
Hall, and as I say, we were the first, long first to
get there, and we had a thick of a room, see. So we run
over and looked at the things over, and we picked
out a nice room on the second floor of Milner Hall,
corner room, see. So we were just fixed up pretty
good. So about the second night we were there,
about 3 o'clock in the morning, we heard the
biggest tail raising you ever heard coming up
those steel stairs. And somebody
coming running in there. You know, it was
summertime. We never thought anything about
closing the door. And somebody coming running in
there. And he says, here's a couple of fish in here,
in our room. And you remember, you've heard about
old Cop Forsyth? Yeah. Well, Cop's brother made
that big donation, you know, to the college,
$300,000. Yeah. And that was old Cop's brother,
kid brother. Yeah. And he was a sophomore that
year. So he rousted us out of there. You talk about
getting met at the station, that's... He rousted
us out of there pretty quick. So he told us out of
their room. Of course, it's against the rules
then, you know, for any freshman to get in the
corner room. That was a bad breach of etiquette. A
freshman had to be in one of these middle rooms. So
old cop, he run us out of that room about 3 o'clock,
about when the genie come in, the 3 o'clock genie,
run us out of that room. He and old Stovall, there's
a fellow named J.T. Stovall, Well, you ever heard
of him or not, old J.T.? I don't think so. He's dead
now. So is Cop, I think. Now, Cop's still alive. The
young Cop, little Cop. Well, the one I know is Cop
Forsyth, class of 13 or something like that. Well,
that's his brother. That's his brother. And that
was the original Cop, see?
I might be talking out of school now, but I don't
want to... get mixed up maybe in something i don't
know about but this they call little cop oh he was a
young he was he was a sophomore and he'd had an older
brother there named
a cop and i don't know whether it's this one that
donated to school or not but the tradition went the
story went that when the a m defeated texas in uh I
believe it was 1912, 1911, sometime back there.
That wouldn't be the exact date. They used to have a
big old steer, you know, a longhorn steer for a
mascot. So they got this longhorn steer and
branded him 18-6. What was the score? I forget. I
believe they branded him 13-0. 13-0. Yeah, that's
it. 13-0. You're right. 13-0. So... They were
raising hell there in town, you know, that night
and so some of these old policemen used to wear
these long coats and helmets and so forth. So the
story went that the policemen started to arrest
some of these boys and so they just threw him down,
stripped his clothes off, stripped his uniform
off, and the old cop dressed up, and he acted as a
policeman, so that's where he got the name of cop.
Oh, I see. That was a tradition when I was there,
see. And so his little brother, his younger
brother was Little Cop. Little Cop. See, when that
fellow went to school there, and his name was Cop,
then the next, the next, not generation, but the
next kin that come there, he automatically became
Little Cop, see. Like there's a Big Hig and a Little
Hig. Old Little Hig, he was there when I was there,
you know, and he was a big athlete and a big halfback
there. And Big Hig was about three, four years
before him. So anyway, we got run out of that room,
and then we found us a room down the hall a little
ways, and that's where we put up for the rest of the
time. So that's the kind of, and so we became then, I
was the top fish, I was old Stovall's fish, and this
other boy was Byron. He was old Cop's fish. So we had
to go down every morning, clean out the room for
him, sweep it up. And he'd tell us, I don't want any
ram fish. Get that room clean. Well, that was our
job. We had to clean up the room, wash the wash
basin, and all like that every morning after
breakfast before class. And that's the way to run
things. Did you have to clean the rifle, too? clean
the rifles. Every Saturday morning for
inspection, we had to clean the rifles. And they
had to stay in inspection every Saturday. And if it
was, sometimes it was room inspection, something
come up, maybe they didn't want to have them. So
they had room inspection. We had to be, we were, we
did guard duty. We'd run at walk post. And all that
sort of thing, drilled three times a week. And that
is Tuesday we drilled, and Thursday we drilled,
and then Saturday we either had an inspection or
had a review on the, an inspection on the parade
grounds, a review. So it was a mighty fine school.
Did you stay in Milner Hall the whole time you were
there? No. I was in Milner Hall my freshman year,
and then my roommate got assigned to my roommate
and I got assigned to E Company, and E Company was up
in Bazell. So I roomed in Bazell the rest of the
time. Those two were both fairly new, Don and
Fuente. Well, they just finished Brazell. And
when I went there as a freshman, they just finished
the previous year. And that was the brand newest
thing on the campus was Brazell Hall. That was a
nice hall. So you had convenient showers and
bathrooms and all that sort of stuff in those.
Well, it's a. You had them on each floor anyway.
Yeah, we had them on. We did the same thing in
Milton. We had latrines, we called it, on each
floor. How was the life in those dormitories? Was
it pretty hectic or pretty well controlled or how
would you describe it? It's nothing like it is now.
Oh, hell no. We had discipline, you know. We had
call to quarters every night. I
think, as well as I recollect, it was either 7 or
7.15 was call to quarters. Well, 7 was call to
quarters and then we had room inspection. We had to
be in a room by 7.15. And then we had a fellow sent in a
walking post on each floor. And if you wanted to go
out for anything, you had to holler for him and ask
his permission to go with the latrine or something
like that, or toilet. And you couldn't go out to the
library or stuff like that unless you got
permission. You had to have permission to go out.
Freshmen He could get one pass a month to Brian. A
sophomore could get one pass a week. And a junior
could go every Saturday when he wanted to. And a
senior could go anytime he wanted to. Go anywhere.
And the seniors run the school. He could go
anywhere he had enough money to go. Well, he
couldn't just take off. In other words, if he
wanted to run down to Navasota, Why, in my senior
year down there, why,
my company captain and his 12 more seniors went
down to Navasota, got in one of those whorehouses
down there and got drunk. And they found it out, and
they canned every one of them. They wouldn't have
done that now, would they? I doubt it. Too
soft-hearted. Every one of them got canned right
just a few days before Christmas. They were about
half a year from graduating. Half a year from
graduating. Did they allow any of them to come
back, or did they can them permanently? No, sir.
They kind of canned them for all the time to come.
None of them ever came back at all. Had I ever heard
of them. I remember Bob Easton was my company
commander. Did that cause any kind of disturbance
among the rest of the students? No, no. There's
three things you mustn't do. You mustn't gamble.
You mustn't get drunk. You mustn't cheat. You
mustn't steal. And
those are three things. That is, those are the
things that you must not do. That is, under the
penalty of being expelled. They caught you
gambling, playing poker. They raided the poker
room. Every fellow... in that room got canned,
whether he was playing poker or not. Just watch it.
He got canned. And if you got drunk, they found it
out, you got the tag. Well, they don't do that today
for sure because I think most of them had beer in
their rooms. That's right. Well, I say, we had a
school. We had a school. Now, don't forget it,
boys. 2,300 cadets. And we had discipline. We
walked posts. And we did drill. We went to summer
camp. And everybody had to take military
training. Did upperclassmen as well as freshmen
walk posts? Oh, no, no. Just the freshmen walked
the posts? No, just the freshmen. And that was only
inside the dormitories, wasn't it? Yeah, inside.
In other words, you're supposed to keep these kids
in their room. Yeah. They couldn't leave their
room unless they got permission from you. We had
the sergeant of the guard and all that kind of
stuff, you know. Officer of the day. Officer of the
day, yeah, we had an officer of the day every day.
Was it the officer of the day who inspected the
rooms? Or was it the company commander? No, the
room inspection was, we had an old sergeant down
there, he called him Sergeant Smart. And he had
some assistance. We had some of these old-time
army sergeants down there, but... As a rule, old
Sergeant Smart went around every morning and
inspected the room, see. He found a dirty wash
basin, a bed unmade, or anything, dust, dirt on the
floor, or anything. In other words, the room
wasn't tidy. You got a red slip in the mailbox.
Mm-hmm. If you was a freshman and you was cleaning
that upperclassman's room, you got the paddle.
The upperclassman got the ram, but you got the
paddle. You got the paddle. How did they work it,
say, if there were two of you in the room and the wash
basin was dirty, you both got a ram? Both of us got
around. But if just one bed was messed up, why,
who's every bed it was got around? It didn't make
any difference whose bed it was. That room got
around. That room got around. Did they read that
list at the mess hall at night? No. No, you just got a
red flip, and that gave you so many demerits. Well,
if I remember right, 125 demerits in one semester,
they sent you home. If you missed retreat, you
missed formation, any kind of a formation, well,
you got a ram. You got a ram clip. Well, if you got
the, I think it was 125. I've still got my old blue
buck in there. How could you reduce the number you
had? Couldn't reduce them. Hell, that was
permanent. Well, there was a point at one time
where you could work on the grounds or something
for the school and reduce the range. Well, I know
that's where the liberality first came. Or you
could march in the bullring and reduce them. Well,
they didn't have anything like that then.
There are different ways you got a demerit. If you
missed flash, you cut flash, you got a demerit. If
you missed formation, you got a demerit. If your
room was untidy, you got a demerit. If your gun was
dirty at inspection, you got a demerit. I don't
know what the number was, but a certain number for
each fence. If you got the magic number, you were
out. That's right. You went home. You couldn't
come back until the next semester. You had to get
out on your knees and say a prayer before they let
you in there. What was the food like in the mess
hall? Good. It was all right. Old freezer stuff, we
called it. It was all right. Was it kind of
monotonous at times? Well, I wouldn't say that.
They fed us good. We had chili, and we had bull
necks, and we had plenty of bread, and we had
cereal. It was all right. Just plain, wholesome
food, you see. It was all right. We had a table
style, and they had Mexican waiters bring us the
food. We sat 12 men at the table. And the
upperclassman, he always had the end chair at the
head of the table. They had an upperclassman at the
head of the table. and had one at their foot. And
when we went in, well, we stood at attention until
all the corps was in. And then the colonel gave the
command, take seats. We took seats. But before you
took seats, why then you wanted to see that each
upperclassman, maybe sometimes there was a
sophomore, maybe a junior sergeant at the head of
the table, maybe a sergeant at the foot, maybe a
sophomore seat. You wanted to be pretty sure that
those glasses were all filled with water or iced
tea or whatever they wanted before you sat down.
And they were well served and well taken care of.
And then when everybody was helped, the
sophomores or the upperclassmen helped
themselves, well, then we dove in and helped
ourselves. Those things are good for a boy. I know
you marched to every meal in formation. Marched to
every meal, yes, sir. Did you enter the dining hall
in the same order all the time? In other words, the
same company go in first all the time? That's
right. We just started in at the head down there.
Whichever one was closest to the speech hall on the
military walk. They lined up in front of you. You
know how that main drag was. I mean, the military
walk. You know how that was arranged there.
Dormitories on each side, so we fell out naturally
to fall out for formation, retreat, and stuff like
that.
fell out that way. Adjacent to the holes, we
marched in every day.
Everything was run in the military matters. You
know that, you probably know this, that A&M
furnished more officers for World War I than the
two in the United States. Yeah, and I'm not sure, I
believe the same is true for two, World War II. I
mean World War II, that's what I mean, not World War
I, now I don't know, but World War II. I believe it
was both of them.
We mentioned a few things earlier that the upper
classmen could do that the freshmen couldn't,
like they could go to town more often and and they
had freshmen to do things for them, and they got
served first in the dining hall and that sort of
stuff. Were there any other privileges that the
upperclassmen had?
Well, they had all the privileges that were graded
by,
as I told you, it started from the sophomore. Of
course, he had the first bottom privilege, and
then it went on up to the senior. And he had the
senior. I guess you suppose he—I would say he had
all the privileges.
What did you do for entertainment and recreation?
Oh, we didn't suffer that. Played poker and
blackjack and behind the locked doors and— And we
had a theater every Saturday night, a picture show
down there. We went to that, and then we had dances.
Was that a picture show in the old air dome? Well,
there's an old wooden shack they had there. I don't
know what they called it. I think it was the air
dome. Yeah, it was built out of wood. Was that over
there across from the YMCA? Yeah, that's back
right in front of the YMCA. Yeah, I believe that was
the old air dome. Yeah, that's what they called it,
I guess, the air dome. It wasn't a very big
building. We had these movies over there. And we
had lots of fun, you know. We went berry hunting,
and we went out to the fish tank. You know where the
fish tank is? No. No? A bunch of sportsmen started
that way back, and that's where they used to take
the fish out there and dump them and throw them in
that fish tank, and that's where it got its name,
the fish tank. Where was it, say, from the
administration building, if you went across the
railroad tracks down that direction?
The fish tank? Yeah. Yeah, it was out there on the
other side of the way, out in the country there.
That was about, I'd say, about four miles, as far as
I recollect, about four miles from Bryant. There
was no tank out there, just a lake. They called it a
lake. I think a bunch of sportsmen started it, and
maybe it was abandoned, I don't know. But we used to
go swimming out there, and...
There's a lot of blackberries out in that part of
the woods. We used to go out there and just rove
around. We had a lot of wholesome, we had a more
wholesome form of living than these people have
now, you know. I guess it's that way all over the
country.